= penfold

http://github.com/aasmith/penfold

== DESCRIPTION

Penfold is an assistant for screening potentital and tracking current 
covered call positions.

== FEATURES

* Reports on the current profitability of a current position.
* Shows the potential profitability of hypothetical positions.

== TODO

 * Add portfolio read/write frontend.
 * Allow penfold-try to use a default ITM strike price.
 * Some arguments to penfold-try are incomplete.
 * Make commission class more flexible.

== USAGE

  Usage: penfold [position|try|show|list|add|remove] [options]
  
=== Position 

Reports on a current position.

  Usage: penfold position [[-n NAME|-A] exit options]
  
  Position options:
      -n, --name NAME                  Name of position in portfolio
      -A, --all                        Use all positions in portfolio
  
  Exit options:
      -s, --exit-stock-price PRICE     Stock price to exit at
      -o, --exit-option-price PRICE    Option price to exit at
      -e, --exit-days DAYS             Exit in n DAYS (default 0)
      -E, --expires                    Hold position until expiry
  
  Common options:
      -c, --commission=NAME            Commission fees to apply
      -h, --help                       Show this message
      -v, --verbose
  
=== Try

Tries out a hypothetical position.

  Usage: penfold try [[[ticker options] entry options] exit options]
  
  Ticker options:
      -t, --ticker=SYMBOL              Stock ticker SYMBOL to try
      -n, --num-shares=NUM             Number of shares in position
      -d, --option-date=DATE           Expiry DATE of option contract
      -x, --option-strike=PRICE        Option strike PRICE
  
  Entry options:
      -s, --entry-stock-price=PRICE    Stock PRICE to enter at
      -o, --entry-option-price=PRICE   Option PRICE to enter at
  
  Exit options:
      -S, --exit-stock-price=PRICE     Stock PRICE to exit at
      -O, --exit-option-price=PRICE    Option PRICE to exit at
      -e, --exit-days=DAYS             Exit in n DAYS (default expiry)
      -E, --expires                    Hold position until expiry
  
  Common options:
      -c, --commission=NAME            Commission fees to apply
      -L, --last                       Use last price instead of bid/ask for stock pricing
      -h, --help                       Show this message
      -v, --verbose
  

== EXAMPLES

  # Commands for checking a current position
  
  # check the profit of a position, using current market pricing
  # assuming an immediate exit
  
  penfold position --name=example
  
  # check the profit of a position, using a hypothetical exit price,
  # assuming an exit 3 days from now
  
  penfold position 
          --name=example
          --exit-stock-price=4.56
          --exit-option-price=0.52
          --exit-days=3
  
  # check the profit of a position, using current market pricing
  # assuming the expiry of the contract
  
  penfold position --name=example --expires
  
  
  # Commands for checking a potentital position
  
  # check the profit of stock XYZ, with an August 2010 option with $4 strike,
  # using current market pricing and assuming an expiry of the contract
  
  penfold try --stock=XYZ --num-shares=1000 --option-date=100821 --option-strike=4
  
  # check the profit of stock XYZ with an August 2010 option with $4 strike,
  # using provided entry pricing and assuming an exit in 5 days with provided
  # exit pricing
  
  penfold try 
          --stock=XYZ --num-shares=1000 --option-date=100821 --option-strike=4
          --stock-entry-price=4.25 --option-entry-price=0.35
          --exit-days=5 --stock-exit-price=4.51 --option-exit-price=0.39
  
  
  # Batch position checks
  
  # Show all positions assuming expiry with current market prices
  penfold position --all --expires
  
  # Show all positions assuming immediate exit with current market prices
  penfold position --all 
  
  
  # Portfolio commands
  
  # List current portfolio positions
  
  penfold [show|list]
  
  penfold add example 
              --stock=XYZ --num-shares=1000 --option-date=100821 --option-strike=4
              --stock-entry-price=4.5 --option-entry-price=0.34
  
  penfold remove example
  
  penfold rename example new_example


== REQUIREMENTS

 * nokogiri, if fetching quotes

== LICENSE

Copyright (c) 2010 Andrew A. Smith

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

